---
layout: post
title: Why Windows 7 will never take off | Marco.org
date: 2012-06-25 10:56
external-url: http://www.marco.org/2012/06/23/why-windows-phone-7-will-never-take-off
categories:
- tech
---

> If designers create beautiful, rich, iOS-style Metro interfaces, they’ll look garish or out of place. And if they follow Metro’s lead instead, there’s a good chance that everything will look stark, bland, sterile, and undifferentiated.

Even though the [root article](http://blog.philgetzen.com/post/17244201404/why-windows-phone-7-will-never-take-off) is talking about Windows Phone 7, the critique is relevant to Metro in general and, therefore, to Windows 8 in all of its varieties. It's a critique that has been in the back of my mind since I first laid eyes on Metro.

Now, let me be clear, I very much like Metro. I like the philosophy that content should be the focus of an app—it should be. But Metro takes this one step further by homogenizing the visual aspects of apps. It doesn't just say that content should be the focus as a matter of good design principle, it effectively dictates what an app must look like to feel native in the Windows 7/8 environment. It's that second step that both drives the allure of Metro *and* constricts developers.

Contrast this with Apple's own iOS apps. Because they are all native and based on UIKit, they all have a consistent *feel*, but Apple is not afraid to differentiate them visually. This can be taken too far (*cough, Calendar, cough*), but it often leads to an experience that is more richly engaging and intuitive. 

Of course, as with all things design, much of this comes down to personal preference. But with Metro, for better or worse, much of the developer's ability to exercise personal preference has been removed.

